.TH CHECKVIST-CLI 1 "2025" "checkvist-cli 0.1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
checkvist-cli \- Command-line interface for Checkvist task management
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B checkvist-cli
[\fIGLOBAL OPTIONS\fR]
.I COMMAND
[\fICOMMAND OPTIONS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B checkvist-cli
is a synchronous Rust CLI that provides a clean interface to the Checkvist Open API for managing checklists, tasks, and notes. It supports multiple profiles, automatic token refresh, and both text and JSON output formats.
.SH GLOBAL OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-\-format " " \fIFORMAT\fR
Output format: \fBtext\fR (default) or \fBjson\fR. Text format uses tab-separated values. JSON format wraps results in objects with descriptive keys.
.TP
.BR \-\-profile " " \fIPROFILE\fR
Configuration profile name (default: \fBdefault\fR). Profiles are defined in the auth.ini file and allow managing multiple Checkvist accounts.
.TP
.BR \-\-base\-url " " \fIURL\fR
Checkvist API base URL (default: \fBhttps://checkvist.com\fR). Override for testing or self-hosted instances.
.TP
.BR \-\-auth\-file " " \fIPATH\fR
Path to authentication configuration file (default: \fB~/.checkvist/auth.ini\fR). Contains username and remote API key.
.TP
.BR \-\-token\-file " " \fIPATH\fR
Path to token file (default: \fB~/.checkvist/token\fR). Stores the session token, automatically refreshed when expired.
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-verbose
Increase verbosity. Can be specified multiple times (\fB\-vv\fR, \fB\-vvv\fR). Shows configuration loading and HTTP request/response details with sensitive data redacted.
.SH COMMANDS
.SS AUTH COMMANDS
.TP
.B auth login
Interactive authentication setup. Prompts for Checkvist username, remote API key, and optional 2FA token. Creates the auth.ini file with proper permissions (0600 on Unix).
.TP
.B auth status
Verify authentication token and display current user information. Automatically refreshes expired tokens. Output format controlled by \fB\-\-format\fR flag.
.SS LIST COMMANDS
.TP
.B lists
.TQ
.B lists get
List all checklists. Supports filtering and ordering options.
.RS
.TP
.B \-\-archived
Include archived lists only.
.TP
.B \-\-order " " \fIORDER\fR
Sort order: \fBid:asc\fR, \fBid:desc\fR, \fBupdated_at:asc\fR, or \fBupdated_at:desc\fR.
.TP
.B \-\-with\-stats
Include statistics in the response (default: skip stats for performance).
.TP
.B \-\-skip\-stats
Explicitly skip statistics (conflicts with \fB\-\-with\-stats\fR).
.RE
.TP
.B lists create " " \fINAME\fR
Create a new checklist with the specified name.
.TP
.B lists delete " " \fILIST_ID\fR
Delete an empty checklist. Fails if the list contains tasks.
.TP
.B lists update " " \fILIST_ID\fR " " [\fIOPTIONS\fR]
Update checklist metadata.
.RS
.TP
.B \-\-archive
Archive the checklist (conflicts with \fB\-\-unarchive\fR).
.TP
.B \-\-unarchive
Unarchive the checklist (conflicts with \fB\-\-archive\fR).
.TP
.B \-\-public
Make the checklist public (conflicts with \fB\-\-private\fR).
.TP
.B \-\-private
Make the checklist private (conflicts with \fB\-\-public\fR).
.RE
.TP
.B lists show " " \fILIST_ID\fR " " [\fIOPTIONS\fR]
Show checklist metadata or its tasks.
.RS
.TP
.B \-\-tasks
Show tasks instead of metadata (equivalent to \fBtasks get\fR).
.RE
.SS TASK COMMANDS
.TP
.B tasks get " " \fB\-\-list\-id\fR " " \fILIST_ID\fR
List all tasks in a checklist. Text format displays hierarchical tree structure with indentation showing parent-child relationships.
.TP
.B tasks create " " \fB\-\-list\-id\fR " " \fILIST_ID\fR " " \fB\-\-content\fR " " \fICONTENT\fR " " [\fIOPTIONS\fR]
Create a new task in a checklist.
.RS
.TP
.B \-\-parent\-id " " \fIPARENT_ID\fR
Optional parent task ID for creating subtasks.
.RE
.TP
.B tasks update " " \fB\-\-list\-id\fR " " \fILIST_ID\fR " " \fB\-\-task\-id\fR " " \fITASK_ID\fR " " [\fIOPTIONS\fR]
Update an existing task. At least one option must be provided.
.RS
.TP
.B \-\-content " " \fICONTENT\fR
New task content/text.
.TP
.B \-\-status " " \fISTATUS\fR
Task status: \fBopen\fR or \fBdone\fR.
.TP
.B \-\-parent\-id " " \fIPARENT_ID\fR
Move task under a different parent.
.TP
.B \-\-parse
Enable smart syntax recognition in the content. When set, the Checkvist API
will parse \fB#tags\fR and \fB^due\fR expressions in the content and convert
them to native tags and due dates. Without this flag, such expressions are
treated as literal text.
.IP
Note: \fBtasks create\fR parses smart syntax automatically; this flag is only
needed for \fBtasks update\fR.
.RE
.TP
.B tasks remove " " \fB\-\-list\-id\fR " " \fILIST_ID\fR " " \fB\-\-task\-id\fR " " \fITASK_ID\fR
Delete a task from a checklist.
.TP
.B tasks close " " \fB\-\-list\-id\fR " " \fILIST_ID\fR " " \fB\-\-task\-id\fR " " \fITASK_ID\fR
Close (complete) a task. Sets the task status to done. Returns the updated task. Uses the dedicated Checkvist close endpoint which properly handles subtask completion semantics.
.TP
.B tasks reopen " " \fB\-\-list\-id\fR " " \fILIST_ID\fR " " \fB\-\-task\-id\fR " " \fITASK_ID\fR
Reopen a previously closed task. Sets the task status back to open. Returns the updated task.
.SS NOTE COMMANDS
.TP
.B notes
.TQ
.B notes list " " \fB\-\-list\-id\fR " " \fILIST_ID\fR " " \fB\-\-task\-id\fR " " \fITASK_ID\fR
List all notes for a task.
.TP
.B notes create " " \fB\-\-list\-id\fR " " \fILIST_ID\fR " " \fB\-\-task\-id\fR " " \fITASK_ID\fR " " \fB\-\-text\fR " " \fITEXT\fR
Create a new note for a task.
.TP
.B notes update " " \fB\-\-list\-id\fR " " \fILIST_ID\fR " " \fB\-\-task\-id\fR " " \fITASK_ID\fR " " \fB\-\-note\-id\fR " " \fINOTE_ID\fR " " [\fIOPTIONS\fR]
Update an existing note.
.RS
.TP
.B \-\-text " " \fITEXT\fR
New note text.
.RE
.TP
.B notes remove " " \fB\-\-list\-id\fR " " \fILIST_ID\fR " " \fB\-\-task\-id\fR " " \fITASK_ID\fR " " \fB\-\-note\-id\fR " " \fINOTE_ID\fR
Delete a note from a task.
.SS BACKUP COMMAND
.TP
.B backup " " [\fIOPTIONS\fR]
Export all checklists (active and archived) as individual OPML files. Each checklist is saved as a separate file named \fBID-Name.opml\fR in the output directory.
.RS
.TP
.B \-\-output " " \fIDIR\fR
Output directory (default: current directory).
.TP
.B \-\-nolog
Suppress progress logging to stderr.
.RE
.SH CONFIGURATION
.SS Authentication File (~/.checkvist/auth.ini)
INI format file containing credentials for one or more profiles:
.PP
.nf
.RS
[default]
username = user@example.com
remote_key = YOUR_API_KEY
# token2fa = 123456  # Optional, only if 2FA enabled

[work]
username = user@company.com
remote_key = WORK_API_KEY
.RE
.fi
.PP
File permissions should be 0600 on Unix systems. Created automatically by \fBauth login\fR command.
.SS Token File (~/.checkvist/token)
Plain text file containing a single line with the current session token. Automatically created and refreshed. Do not edit manually.
.SS Environment Variables
Configuration can be overridden via environment variables:
.TP
.B CHECKVIST_PROFILE
Profile name (overrides \fB\-\-profile\fR default).
.TP
.B CHECKVIST_BASE_URL
API base URL (overrides \fB\-\-base\-url\fR default).
.TP
.B CHECKVIST_AUTH_FILE
Path to auth.ini file.
.TP
.B CHECKVIST_TOKEN_FILE
Path to token file.
.TP
.B CHECKVIST_USERNAME
Username (overrides value from auth.ini).
.TP
.B CHECKVIST_REMOTE_KEY
Remote API key (overrides value from auth.ini).
.TP
.B CHECKVIST_TOKEN2FA
Two-factor authentication token (optional).
.PP
Configuration precedence (highest to lowest):
.RS 4
1. Command-line flags
.br
2. Environment variables
.br
3. INI file profile section
.br
4. Built-in defaults
.RE
.SH TOKEN LIFECYCLE
.B checkvist-cli
automatically manages authentication tokens:
.IP 1. 4
If no token file exists, logs in using username and remote_key from auth.ini
.IP 2. 4
On 401/403 responses, attempts to refresh the token
.IP 3. 4
If refresh fails, performs full re-login
.IP 4. 4
Retries the original request with the new token
.PP
This ensures commands work seamlessly without manual token management.
.SH OUTPUT FORMATS
.SS Text Format
Default format. Tab-separated values, one item per line:
.PP
.nf
.RS
12345<TAB>My Checklist Name
67890<TAB>Another Checklist
.RE
.fi
.PP
Tasks are displayed with hierarchical indentation (2 spaces per level):
.PP
.nf
.RS
100<TAB>Parent Task
  101<TAB>Child Task
  102<TAB>Another Child
    103<TAB>Grandchild Task
.RE
.fi
.SS JSON Format
Wraps results in descriptive objects:
.PP
.nf
.RS
{
  "lists": [
    { "id": 12345, "name": "My Checklist", ... },
    { "id": 67890, "name": "Another Checklist", ... }
  ]
}
.RE
.fi
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success
.TP
.B 2
Command-line argument error (clap parsing failure)
.TP
.B 3
Authentication error (missing credentials, login/refresh rejected)
.TP
.B 4
Network/transport error (connection failure, timeout)
.TP
.B 5
API/data error (unexpected HTTP status, invalid JSON)
.TP
.B 6
Local error (config file parse error, filesystem error)
.SH EXAMPLES
.SS Initial Setup
.PP
.nf
.RS
# Interactive credential setup
checkvist-cli auth login

# Verify authentication
checkvist-cli auth status
.RE
.fi
.SS Working with Lists
.PP
.nf
.RS
# List all checklists
checkvist-cli lists

# List with JSON output
checkvist-cli --format json lists get

# List archived checklists, ordered by update time
checkvist-cli lists get --archived --order updated_at:desc

# Create a new list
checkvist-cli lists create "My TODO List"

# Archive a list
checkvist-cli lists update 12345 --archive

# Delete an empty list
checkvist-cli lists delete 12345
.RE
.fi
.SS Working with Tasks
.PP
.nf
.RS
# List all tasks in a checklist
checkvist-cli tasks get --list-id 12345

# Create a task
checkvist-cli tasks create --list-id 12345 --content "Buy milk"

# Create a subtask
checkvist-cli tasks create --list-id 12345 --content "2% milk" --parent-id 100

# Mark task as done
checkvist-cli tasks update --list-id 12345 --task-id 100 --status done

# Update task content
checkvist-cli tasks update --list-id 12345 --task-id 100 --content "Buy organic milk"

# Update content with smart syntax (parse #tags and ^due)
checkvist-cli tasks update --list-id 12345 --task-id 100 --content "Buy organic milk #grocery ^tomorrow" --parse

# Delete a task
checkvist-cli tasks remove --list-id 12345 --task-id 100

# Close (complete) a task
checkvist-cli tasks close --list-id 12345 --task-id 100

# Reopen a closed task
checkvist-cli tasks reopen --list-id 12345 --task-id 100
.RE
.fi
.SS Working with Notes
.PP
.nf
.RS
# List notes for a task
checkvist-cli notes --list-id 12345 --task-id 100

# Add a note to a task
checkvist-cli notes create --list-id 12345 --task-id 100 --text "Remember to check expiration date"

# Update a note
checkvist-cli notes update --list-id 12345 --task-id 100 --note-id 5 --text "Updated note text"

# Delete a note
checkvist-cli notes remove --list-id 12345 --task-id 100 --note-id 5
.RE
.fi
.SS Multiple Profiles
.PP
.nf
.RS
# Use work profile
checkvist-cli --profile work lists

# Use with environment variable
export CHECKVIST_PROFILE=work
checkvist-cli lists
.RE
.fi
.SS Verbose Logging
.PP
.nf
.RS
# Show configuration loading and HTTP traces
checkvist-cli -v lists

# Even more verbose (shows request/response bodies)
checkvist-cli -vv auth status
.RE
.fi
.SS Backup
.PP
.nf
.RS
# Export all lists to current directory (creates ID-Name.opml files)
checkvist-cli backup

# Export to specific directory
checkvist-cli backup --output ~/backups

# Silent export (no progress messages)
checkvist-cli backup --output ~/backups --nolog
.RE
.fi
.SH FILES
.TP
.B ~/.checkvist/auth.ini
Default authentication configuration file
.TP
.B ~/.checkvist/token
Default token storage file
.SH NOTES
.IP \(bu 2
Token and remote_key are never printed in logs (redacted with \fB***\fR)
.IP \(bu 2
Commands use synchronous HTTP (no async runtime) for simplicity and portability
.IP \(bu 2
Task hierarchy is determined by \fBparent_id\fR relationships
.IP \(bu 2
Deleting a list requires it to be empty (no tasks)
.IP \(bu 2
All API interactions respect the Checkvist Open API v2
.SH GETTING YOUR API KEY
.IP 1. 4
Visit https://checkvist.com/auth/login and sign in
.IP 2. 4
Go to https://checkvist.com/auth/profile
.IP 3. 4
Copy your "Remote API key"
.IP 4. 4
Run \fBcheckvist-cli auth login\fR and paste the key when prompted
.SH SEE ALSO
Full API documentation: https://checkvist.com/auth/api
.PP
Project repository: https://github.com/kappa/checkvist-cli
.SH AUTHOR
Written using the Claude Code CLI tool.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2025. Licensed under terms specified in the project repository.
